# Rp Plotter
Rp Plotter is an application that uses electrochemical impedance data to prepare publication-ready Nyquist plots of the data as well as a polarization resistance (Rp) plots used in publications. This software package was developed by the Jason D. Nicholas Group at Michigan State University.

## Instructions

### Creating a New Sample

To create a new sample, go to `File > New` and fill out the fields in the dialog. The sample name can contain characters including letters, numbers, and spaces. Cathode area is the geometric area of a single cathode on a symmetrical solid oxide fuel cell. The minimum, maximum, and temperature step sizes are simply the points the data was collected at. The fact that these are labeled temperatures is mostly arbitrary. The Automatically Collected File checkbox should be checked if the file contains three tab-separated columns with frequency, real, and imaginary impedance. The checkbox should be unchecked if the file being used was saved as a text file from inside Zahner's Thales application. Finally, the Directory Path is the path of the folder containing the raw data files used.

### Generating an Rp Plot

An Rp plot is generated by plotting each of the Nyquist plots that correspond to the measurement temperatures and recording the low and high x-intercept values at that temperature. After repeating this for all of the temperatures, the Rp plot can be displayed by selecting the marker color and style from a variety of options and clicking the Plot Rp button. The Plot Rp on a new plot checkbox should be checked if the data should be plotted on its own plot. It should be unchecked if you would like multiple data sets on a single plot and reflected in the legend.

### Saving and Opening Sample Files

Since setting up a new sample and typing in the intercept values can be somewhat tedious, the entered sample data can be saved and opened at another time by using `File > Save` and `File > Open`. As mentioned in the last section, opening multiple samples and unchecking the Plot Rp on a new plot box will allow you to plot the Rp points for multiple data sets and formats on the sample plot for saving. 

### Saving Images
To save an image of a plot that is currently being displayed or to generate a Nyquist stack plot, simply go to `File > Save Image` and select your option. Files can be saved in a variety of formats, but it is strongly suggested to save in a vector format such as `pdf` or  `eps`. The other currently supported format is  `png`. Formats can be accessed by manually typing the file extension.

## Examples

There are several files in the `examples/` folder that demonstrate some of the capabilities of Rp Plotter. The folder `LSCF-6482-auto` contains raw data files that were automatically collected by a LabView program and Zahner's Thales application. These tab-separated files are the most obvious way to save data containing simply the frequency, real, and imaginary impedance. `LSCF-6482-Thales` contains raw data files saved using Zahner's Thales application, but the file structure is not very practical to be used by end-users without Thales.

`LSCF-6482-auto.p` and `LSCF-6482-Thales.p` are files that were created and saved with RpPlotter so they can easily be opened and plotted. `LSCF-6482-auto_rp.pdf` and `LSCF-6482-auto_nyquist_600C` are examples of publication-ready images that can easily be saved in either vector or raster formats.
